light aircraft equipped with glass displays typically share the same pitot- static inputs for the backup instrumentation. Since both systems are receiving the same input signals, both could fail if affected by obstructed or blocked pitot tubes and static ports and create a difficult situation for a pilot flying in IMC. Some manufacturers combine both the air data computer (ADC) and the attitude and heading reference system (AHRS) functions so that a blockage of the input system may also affect the attitude display.

With conventional instrumentation, the design and operation are similar regardless of aircraft or manufacturer. By comparing information between the six conventional instruments, pilots are able to diagnose common failure modes. Instrument failure indications of conventional instruments and electronic flight displays may be entirely different, and electronic systems failure indications are not standardized. With the wide diversity in system design of glass displays, the primary display and the backup display may respond differently to any interruption of data input, and both displays may function differently than conventional instruments under the same conditions.

It is imperative for pilots to obtain equipment-specific information in reference to both the aircraft and the avionics that fully prepare them to interpret and properly respond to equipment malfunctions of electronic flight instrument displays. Rapidly changing equipment, complex systems, and the difficulty or inability to simulate failure