## Operational Limitations of Airborne Navigation Databases

Understanding the capabilities and limitations of the navigation systems installed in an aircraft is one of the pilot's biggest concerns for IFR flight. Considering the vast number of RNAV systems and pilot interfaces available today, it is critical that pilots and flight crews be familiar with the manufacturer's operating manual for each RNAV system they operate and achieve and retain proficiency operating those systems in the IFR environment.

Most professional and general aviation pilots are familiar with the possible human factors issues related to flightdeck automation. It is particularly important to consider those issues when using airborne navigation databases. Although modern avionics can provide precise guidance throughout all phases of flight, including complex departures and arrivals, not all systems have the same capabilities.

RNAV equipment installed in some aircraft is limited to direct route point- to- point navigation. Therefore, it is very important for pilots to familiarize themselves with the capabilities of their systems through review of the manufacturer documentation. Most modern RNAV systems are contained within an integrated avionics system that receives input from several different navigation and aircraft system sensors. These integrated systems provide so much information that pilots may sometimes fail to recognize errors in navigation caused by database discrepancies or misuse. Pilots must constantly ensure that the data