CG limits—the specified forward and aft points within which the CG must be located during flight. These limits are indicated on pertinent aircraft specifications.- CG range—the distance between the forward and aft CG limits indicated on pertinent aircraft specifications.- Datum (reference datum)—an imaginary vertical plane or line from which all measurements of arm are taken. The datum is established by the manufacturer. Once the datum has been selected, all moment arms and the location of CG range are measured from this point.- Delta—a Greek letter expressed by the symbol \(\triangle\) to indicate a change of values. As an example, \(\triangle\) CG indicates a change (or movement) of the CG.- Floor load limit—the maximum weight the floor can sustain per square inch/foot as provided by the manufacturer.- Fuel load—the expendable part of the load of the aircraft. It includes only usable fuel, not fuel required to fill the lines or that which remains trapped in the tank sumps.- Licensed empty weight—the empty weight that consists of the airframe, engine(s), unusable fuel, and undrainable oil plus standard and optional equipment as specified in the equipment list. Some manufacturers used this term prior to GAMA standardization.- Maximum landing weight—the greatest weight that an aircraft is normally allowed to have at landing.- Maximum ramp weight—the total weight of a loaded aircraft including all fuel. It is greater than the takeoff weight due to the fuel that will be burned during the taxi and run-up operations. Ramp weight may also be referred to as taxi weight.- Maximum takeoff weight—the maximum allowable weight for takeoff.- Maximum weight—the maximum authorized weight of the aircraft and all of its equipment as specified in the TCDS for the aircraft.- Maximum zero fuel weight (GAMA)—the maximum weight, exclusive of usable fuel.- Mean aerodynamic chord (MAC)—the average distance from the leading edge to the trailing edge of the wing.- Moment—the product of the weight of an item multiplied by its arm. Moments are expressed in pound-inches (in-lb). Total moment is the weight of the airplane multiplied by the distance between the datum and the CG.