<table><tr><td>The Five Hazardous Attitudes</td><td>Antidote</td></tr><tr><td>Anti-authority: “Don’t tell me.”<br>This attitude is found in people who do not like anyone telling them what to do. In a sense, they are saying, “No one can tell me what to do.” They may be resentful of having someone tell them what to do or may regard rules, regulations, and procedures as silly or unnecessary. However, it is always your prerogative to question authority if you feel it is in error.</td><td>Follow the rules. They are usually right.</td></tr><tr><td>Impulsivity: “Do it quickly.”<br>This is the attitude of people who frequently feel the need to do something, anything, immediately. They do not stop to think about what they are about to do, they do not select the best alternative, and they do the first thing that comes to mind.</td><td>Not so fast. Think first.</td></tr><tr><td>Invulnerability: “It won’t happen to me.”<br>Many people falsely believe that accidents happen to others, but never to them. They know accidents can happen, and they know that anyone can be affected. However, they never really feel or believe that they will be personally involved. Pilots who think this way are more likely to take chances and increase risk.</td><td>It could happen to me.</td></tr><tr><td>Macho: “I can do it.”<br>Pilots who are always trying to prove that they are better than anyone else think, “I can do it—I’ll show them.” Pilots with this type of attitude will try to prove themselves by taking risks in order to impress others. While this pattern is thought to be a male characteristic, women are equally susceptible.</td><td>Taking chances is foolish.</td></tr><tr><td>Resignation: “What’s the use?”<br>Pilots who think, “What’s the use?” do not see themselves as being able to make a great deal of difference in what happens to them. When things go well, the pilot is apt to think that it is good luck. When things go badly, the pilot may feel that someone is out to get them or attribute it to bad luck. The pilot will leave the action to others, for better or worse. Sometimes, such pilots will even go along with unreasonable requests just to be a “nice guy.”</td><td>I’m not helpless. I can make a difference.</td></tr></table>