<table><tr><td rowspan="2">Facility at Airport</td><td rowspan="2">Frequency Use</td><td colspan="3">Communication/Broadcast Procedures</td></tr><tr><td>Outbound</td><td>Inbound</td><td>Practice Instrument Approach</td></tr><tr><td>UNICOM <br>(no tower or FSS)</td><td>Communicate with UNICOM station on published CTAF frequency (122.7, 122.8, 122.725, 122.975, or 123.0). If unable to contact UNICOM station, use self-announce procedures on CTAF.</td><td>Before taxiing and before taxiing on the runway for departure.</td><td>10 miles out. Entering downwind, base, and final. Leaving the runway.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>No tower, FSS, or UNICOM</td><td>Self-announce on MULTICOM frequency 122.9.</td><td>Before taxiing and before taxiing on the runway for departure.</td><td>10 Miles out. Entering downwind, base, and final. Leaving the runway.</td><td>Departing final approach fix (name) or on final approach segment inbound.</td></tr><tr><td>No tower in operation, FSS open</td><td>Communicate with FSS on CTAF frequency.</td><td>Before taxiing and before taxiing on the runway for departure.</td><td>10 MILES out. Entering downwind, base, and final. Leaving the runway.</td><td>Approach completed/terminated.</td></tr><tr><td>FSS closed <br>(no tower)</td><td>Self-announce on CTAF.</td><td>Before taxiing and before taxiing on the runway for departure</td><td>10 MILES out. Entering downwind, base, and final. Leaving the runoff.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>Tower or FSS not in operation</td><td>Self-announce on CTAF.</td><td>Before taxiing and before taxiING on the runway for departure.</td><td>10 MILES out. Entering downwind, base and final. Leaving the runoff.</td><td></td></tr></table>