<table><tr><td>Operational Pitfalls</td></tr><tr><td>Peer pressure<br>Poor decision-making may be based upon an emotional response to peers, rather than evaluating a situation objectively.</td></tr><tr><td>Mindset<br>A pilot displays mind set through an inability to recognize and cope with changes in a given situation.</td></tr><tr><td>Get-there-itis<br>This disposition impairs pilot judgment through a fixation on the original goal or destination, combined with a disregard for any alternative course of action.</td></tr><tr><td>Duck-under syndrome<br>A pilot may be tempted to make it into an airport by descending below minimums during an approach. There may be a belief that there is a built-in margin of error in every approach procedure, or a pilot may want to admit that the landing cannot be completed and a missed approach must be initiated.</td></tr><tr><td>Scud running<br>This occurs when a pilot tries to maintain visual contact with the terrain at low altitudes while instrument conditions exist.</td></tr><tr><td>Continuing visual flight rules (VFR) into instrument conditions<br>Spatial disorientation or collision with ground/obstacles may occur when a pilot continues VFR into instrument conditions. This can be even more dangerous if the pilot is not instrument rated or current.</td></tr><tr><td>Getting behind the aircraft<br>This pitfall can be caused by allowing events or the situation to control pilot actions. A constant state of surprise at what happens next may be exhibited when the pilot is getting behind the aircraft.</td></tr><tr><td>Loss of positional or situational awareness<br>In extreme cases, when a pilot gets behind the aircraft, a loss of positional or situational awareness may result. The pilot may not know the aircraft&#x27;s geographical location or may be unable to recognize deteriorating circumstances.</td></tr><tr><td>Operating without adequate fuel reserves<br>Ignoring minimum fuel reserve requirements is generally the result of overconfidence, lack of flight planning, or disregarding applicable regulations.</td></tr><tr><td>Descent below the minimum en route altitude<br>The duck-under syndrome, as mentioned above, can also occur during the en route portion of an IFR flight.</td></tr><tr><td>Flying outside the envelope<br>The assumed high performance capability of a particular aircraft may cause a mistaken belief that it can meet the demands imposed by a pilot&#x27;s overestimated flying skills.</td></tr><tr><td>Neglect of flight planning, preflight inspections, and checklists<br>A pilot may rely on short- and long-term memory, regular flying skills, and familiar routes instead of established procedures and published checklists. This can be particularly true of experienced pilots.</td></tr></table>