 wide range of services including severe weather, defense, marine, public weather and environmental monitoring. The information is down linked either via Very High Frequency (VHF) communications through the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) or via satellite link through the Aircraft to Satellite Data Acquisition and Relay (ASDAR).

The Meteorological Data Collection and Reporting System (MDCRS) is an automated airborne weather observation program that is used in the U.S. This program collects and disseminates real- time upper- air weather observations from participating airlines. The weather elements are down linked via ACARS and are managed by Aeronautical Radio, Inc. (ARINC) who then forwards them in Binary Universal Form for the Representation of Meteorological Data (BUFR) format to the NWS and in raw data form to the Earth Science Research Laboratory (ESRL) and the participating airline. More than 1,500 aircraft report wind and temperature data with some of these same aircraft also providing turbulence and humidity/water vapor information. In conjunction with avionics manufacturers, each participating airline programs their equipment to provide certain levels of meteorological data. The monitoring and collection of climb, en route, and descent data is accomplished through the aircraft's Flight Data Acquisition and Monitoring System (FDAMS) and is then transmitted via ACARS. When aircraft are out of ACARS range, reports can be relayed through ASDAR. However, in most cases, the reports are buffered until the aircraft comes within ACARS range, at which point they are downloaded.